# codex
Towards an exocortex.

20240102Z

The asymptotic limit of an exocortex is a fully general external
intelligence. Thus, the development of a notetaking system limits to
the development of an ASI. This can be seen in the transition between
static and dynamic personal knowledge bases: at minimum, a PKB
utilizes a single, a priori organizational schema. The introduction of
multiple schemae, and transformations atop schemae, the contents of
data within them, or the generation of metadata, create the
possibility of affordances for non-local/non-obvious interactions,
almost invariably so as the size of the content base increases, even
allowed only simple dynamic rules. This is the standard formula of a
weird machine, or emergent language, that then must be tamed with
formalisms, and correspondingly formally extended to enable
intentional further complexipotency.

I therefore take the position that the meta-design of an exocortex
must be a process amenable to process, that is, continual revision, as
the minimum viable product intensifies. This may be expected to
percolate to the object level design in various, but invarious, ways,
such that any particular exocortex instantiation ought contain some
method of revision of structure. Other desiderata, mechanisms to
achieve them, and candidate technologies are, not exhaustively, as
follows:

Desiderata:

Epistemology oriented notetaking, that foregrounds the lifecycle of
content revision - annotating what became known in what order, in
relation to what else, and how a body of knowledge has come to adopt
its current form.

Mechanism:

Three dimensional content - the height of an artifact grows as
material is appended, its width as it accrues relations with other
artifacts, and depth as it is revised. The entire PKB, at all feasible
levels of granularity, ought be accessible throughout this volume of
artifact state space.

Technology:

Multitemoporal database (xtdb) - first class support for multiple views on
the content of a given artifact.

[To be continued.]